hello everyone my name is Jay I'm one of
the expert teachers of e to language in
this live class we're going to look at
IELTS academic writing task 1 and
specifically we're going to be focusing
on bar charts or bar graphs or whatever
you want to call them anyway they look
like this this is what you might see on
test day and you might think to yourself
well that's easy I learned how to read a
bar graph when I was in primary school
it's actually pretty complex I was
looking at one before actually I was
trying to find an image so I could so I
could prepare this live class and I was
looking this bar graph and I was writing
the thing and I thought what am I
looking at I didn't get it because it
didn't have a y-axis it didn't tell me
what was the y-axis and I was like
what's going on here this is really
really complicated anyway one of the
reasons why you may be getting low
scores in IELTS writing if you have
taken the IELTS is because of this task
and it may be because you haven't
interpreted the graph correctly if you
can't interpret it then you can't
describe it accurately interpretation is
key so let's have a look at this let's
have a look at the graph description so
above the graph on test day will be a
little box of text like this the bold
text says the graph below compares the
weekly wages by age and gender in the
United States in 2015 the graph below
compares the weekly wages by age and
gender in the United States in 2015
write weekly wages age and gender that's
what this graph is about what do we have
to do well the instruction that sits
below that task description says three
things really it says summarize the
information select and report the main
features make comparisons where relevant
this particular instruction never
changes it's always the same no matter
what sort of image graph pie chart
Grahame you receive the instructions
always the same so we need a bit of a
method so we can do this on test day and
do it effectively
what is that method well actually let's
call it a superstructure the
superstructure is this you firstly want
to summarize then you want to describe
then you want to compare and if you do
that you will make the IELTS examiner's
happy what it's going to look like on
test day is this you're going to have
three distinct paragraphs well actually
the first one is a single sentence then
you'll have a smaller paragraph where
you describe then you'll have a larger
paragraph where you compare data we're
gonna go through this one by one so
let's look at how to summarize first
that's this sentence here what you have
to do is this you have to rewrite the
task description in your own words to
say the exact same thing so you take
that sentence there and you rewrite it
like this so the graph below the given
bar chart compares compares some words
you can't change the weekly wages by age
and gender the weekly salaries of men
and women in five age group categories
in the United States in the United
States in 2015 in 2015 I think I've
missed something here but you can see
what I'm doing here
I'm I've taken individual phrases and
individual words and I've just written
them in my own in in my words however a
word like compares it's pretty hard to
find a synonym or it's impossible to
find a synonym that means the exact same
thing so you have to use the exact same
word that's fine we've seen words like
wages I've changed the salaries gender
I've said men and women here age I've
said age group categories so I've put a
bit more information in the United
States well I've just said in the United
States in 2015 I said in 2015 there was
no other way to
right that maybe you can do it better
okay pause the video you have two
minutes to rewrite this task description
in your own words starting now
now we want to describe so we want to
describe not compare we want to describe
and that's this paragraph here I'm gonna
read your mind mine says overall the
weekly wages of men increased by each
category quite significantly until the
age of 45 to 54 where they then
stabilized at around $1,000 per week
women's weekly wages increased
substantially in the first two age
brackets but then stabilized with a
slight decrease as women aged so what am
i doing here I'm describing the main
trends I'm not comparing men's and
women's wages I'm just describing the
main trends so what I did in fact was
this two things one I described the male
weight trend across age categories - I
wrote a second sentence where I describe
the female wage trend across age
categories let me show you what I mean
more precisely here so my first sentence
I looked here at this only and I didn't
look here at all I just said okay what's
happening with men's wages what's what's
this trend it's a slight increase right
but I've looked more specifically and I
said okay from the age to 16 to 35 there
was quite a significant increase before
it stabilized with a slight increase
from say 30 sorry from 45 to 55 so that
was my number one then with number two I
didn't look at men I just looked at
women and I did the same thing I said
well okay from 16 to 34 that was quite a
sharp increase and then from 35 to 55
it's sort of stabilized with maybe a
slight decrease at the end there so I
talked about these two first and then I
talked about these three next so that's
what I want you to
now whoopsy this is going to sorry about
that
let me bring that back up what I want
you to do is to write two sentences
describe the overall trend for men then
describe the overall trend for women
we'll give you three minutes to do this
cool that's right
didn't mean to be crazy teacher but
sometimes I can't help it right right
right
cool so again this is mine
I said overall the weekly wages of men
increased by age category quite
significantly until the age of 45 to 54
where they then stabilized at around
$1,000 per week woman's weekly wages
increased substantially in the first two
age brackets but then stabilized with a
slight decrease as women aged now we
move on to compare now we want to
compare data we need to choose logical
categories to compare this is probably
the hardest thing choosing a logical
thing to compare what do we compare
we'll get to that in a second then we
compare them and we want to include data
numerical values numbers dollars
percentages ages we want to include that
sort of information in this section but
the first thing you have to ask yourself
is which categories will I compare
because I'm looking at this and I've got
really two choices
okay I can number one compare wage
differences by age category for each
gender so I can just look at men first
and I could say okay let's compare the
16 to 24 year olds with the 25 to 34
year-olds let's compare these two
no that's a terrible thing to compare I
wouldn't do that what you want to do
here the logical thing to compare is
this compare gender wage differences by
age group so I'm gonna compare this one
with this one here so I'm gonna compare
the 16 to 24 year old men with the 16 to
24 year old women the men and 512 the
women earned 450 that is a logical thing
to do and in my next sentence I'm gonna
compare these two I'm gonna compare the
25 to 34 year olds the manner and this
match the women earned this much that's
a logical comparison and so on and so
forth this is how I'm going to compare
okay let me finish these lines to do it
sorry yes anyway that's what I'm going
to do so what does that look like
sentence by sentence this is what I
wrote comparing the two sexes earnings
women's wages were significantly lower
than men's overall more specifically men
in the 16 to 24 year old age bracket
earned as much as sixty two dollars more
than women in addition the 25 to 34 year
old age group also showed a substantial
difference with men earning 771 dollars
per week while women earned much less at
six hundred and eighty-nine dollars per
week you can see that I'm comparing men
and women's wages by age group the
salaries were then sorry were again
disparate between the sexes in the 35 to
44 year old category with women earning
around $200 less than men while men
continued to earn more in the 45 to 54
year old category women's wages actually
slightly decreased between the sexes
there was more than a 200 dollar
difference lastly men and women aged 55
years or older had a significant $300
pay disparity so how did I do that
well six sentences first sentence
compare men's and women's wages overall
so you want to look and you want to say
okay well how do I compare this
to this well I would say something like
men's are higher and increase more
significantly fine then I'm going to
move on to sentence 2 I'm going to
compare the wages of these guys here
with these girls here so this was 512
this was 450 and I'm gonna go through
and I'm gonna create interesting
sentences for each of these comparing
the data I'm gonna give you six minutes
to write this if you're on YouTube just
press pause you'll have to pause until
you finish this and then press play and
see what happens next
alright Sherif what you need to do is do
it systematically you want to do it
systematically I think what you've done
is you've talked about this one first
which is fine but then you've jumped
this one here which is hard to do the
easiest whoops sorry let me get that
back the easiest thing to do is talk
about this one is number one then talk
about this is number two three and three
four four five and five whoopsie five
and five okay that's how you should be
comparing these data this is an
introductory sentence where you just
talk about the two compared overall but
then you start to do it like this so
Sharif please try again and try and do
it like this Agis so that was one
sentence not too in the age group 16 to
24 category men there was a slight oh
yeah oh dear all right you guys might
need some help you guys might need some
help if you're watching this on YouTube
you may need feedback the fastest way to
improve on your writing I believe is to
have somebody point out your mistakes to
say hey you're doing this incorrectly
here's how you can improve it because
the problem is with writing you don't
know what you're doing wrong you may
need to take a tutorial or get some
written feedback on your
if you haven't seen the website do
chucat e to language comm we can
certainly help you out with feedback
cool I'm gonna push on now I'm gonna
just recap what we've learned in fact no
I'm gonna go back and read you mine
again this is where I compared I said
comparing the two sexes earnings women's
wages were significantly lower than
men's overall that's my overall sentence
then I compared the 16 to 24 year olds
more specifically men in the 16 to 24
year old age bracket earned as much as
62 dollars more than women in addition
the 25 to 34 our four-year old age group
also showed a substantial difference
with men earning 771 dollars per week
while women earned much less at six
hundred ninety nine dollars per week the
salaries were again disparate between
the sexes in the 35 to 44 year old
category with women earning around $200
less than men while men continued to
earn more in the 45 to 54 year old cat
age category women's wages actually
slightly decreased between the sexes
there was more than a 200 dollar
difference
lastly men and women aged 55 years or
older had a significant $300 pay
disparity so let's recap what we have
learned we need to do three things on
test day we need to summarize not the
table we need to summarize the the the
bar graph and we did that if you
remember correctly we did that by
rewriting the task description then we
want to describe describe the main
trends we describe the men's overall
main trends then we describe the women's
overall main trends we did not compare
in section 2 in section 3 then we
compared the categories we decided that
we're going to compare the age group of
that we're going to compare the 16 to 24
year old men with the 16 to 24 year old
women that was a logical comparison and
we're going to do the next one and then
the next one and then the next one
that's what we had decided to compare
and that's the right thing to compare
that would help you to get a good score
cool so overall on test day this is
what my writing is going to look like I
think I wrote I'm not exactly sure it
was about 180 words you only need to
write 150 so you don't need to write 180
that's probably too much but you need to
write at least 150 okay
cool so if you need help with your
writing in any way shape or form please
go to e to language calm and think about
upgrading your account to a pay package
so you can access tutorials written
feedback methods that work what else we
got live group classes heaps of
materials lots and lots of stuff that
you can do including grammar lessons
vocabulary lists we've got it all there
for you so do check out this website
right now there I'm going to go to the
chat for these students here